Welcome.
So in this lecture you can tell I'm in a very familiar environment.
Our lobby except something a little different about how I launched up our game and that is that I launched
it not from an executable on my computer but one that I downloaded through it.
It was a service for sharing games for indy's it's completely free to use unlike Steve.
So what you can do is create your own landing page just like this basic one that I've got here.
And we're going to show you how to do that how to upload your builds and why it's so cool to do it through
the app and why it's so much more secure so you can hit the launch button here.
Once you've downloaded the game and it will just fire up the game like this on any of your friends or
other coast udts computers let's figure out how we can do this.
So the first step as you might expect to getting to sharing a game with your friends and family is to
build that game.
Now we are going to be mostly building for p.s. and Mac.
You can obviously do things on Android and IAW.
But generally speaking we're going to be targeting those two platforms and here's how we do it.
We're going to start off by building our game and then we'll talk about where we're going to share it
so let's go over into unreel now.
And the way to bill is very straightforward and very simple you just go to file.
Package project.
And then you select the platform you want to build for either Windows or Mac.
Now if you're on Mac you can only build for macra if you on Windows you can only have windows you can't
cross build for each other.
Not not in any meaningful way.
You have to be on the platform that you want to use.
So I won't go ahead and build for Windows 64 bit.
Now it's gone ask me where I want to put that so if I navigate to my project.
And let's see where that where we are there.
So this is the great project and we don't have a folder to put builds in yet so I suggest you create
a new folder and do name it build because that is a kind of a default a convention if you like.
And if we select that folder Let me show you why I chose to do that if we go over to my project and
at the root of the a real project you'll notice I've got a ignore which we covered in the source control
lecture by open that in any text editor of our choice.
I'm going to open it up in a text editor called atom but you could use Notepad you could use anything
you like to open up that ignored file.
And we're going to notice that there's a bunch of stuff in here lots of things being ignored some deep
deals and all sorts stuff.
But the interesting thing is that build or build forward slash star which means anything under build
it's being ignored which means that if we put files in build they won't go into version control which
is great because we don't want them in version control.
So while that's building and that can take a while to build it we head back into Unreal.
You can see at the moment is doing a process called Cooking which will take quite a while like real
cooking I guess.
And what we're going to want while we're doing that is somewhere to share the game.
Now I'm going to introduce you to a service called H Di O or just H.
And it's a great place to share indie games because unlike steam they don't require a 100 pound sign
up fee.
You can get started and sharing for free.
So if you aren't already a member on it or haven't heard of it before then go ahead and register your
register yourself.
Now I already have an account as you might guess I'm against just go ahead and log in with said account.
But two accounts in fact one for getting their TV in one for myself and you end up on a page like this
once you log in and is indeed prompting you to upload your first project to die out.
Else go and do that.
Create a new project and we're going to be creating a project for the puzzle platform so I'm going to
call this.
Puzzle platforms.
Demo it automatically generate a yourself for me and I can give it a short tagline or description which
I believe goes in the top of the page.
I was going to go with a cheesy tagalong like tackle moving platforms with friends.
Now we get to classify our game.
I'm going to choose to classify it as a game rather than as a book or a sound track or a tool.
The kind of project.
Now here's an interesting one you've got a couple of options downloadable h.m.s. Flash Java applet unity.
Now obviously we're not unity and we're not really building anything that you can play in the browser
so the only option we have left is a downloadable.
And that's what we're going to go with because we're going to have downloadable executables on a project
page and a little bit more about the security about that in a minute.
Next up you've got your release status you can choose from a number of preset release statuses.
I'm going to go with prototype at this stage.
You can choose the pricing model so people really enjoy your game.
They can pay or donate so you can have a zero price or donate.
You can have paid in which case you give a minimum price for people to download the game and you can
have no payments if you basically don't want to deal with people donating to you which I'm going to
go with for now.
And then we'll have uploads which we'll see in a minute.
Once our file has built description that this ongoing copy from the description for our gitte have repo.
So that's it her voice passion real multiplayer.
And we have our puzzle platforms repo there.
With a description at the top of the page.
And that's what I'm going to go ahead and stick in.
I know.
Next up we get to choose John right now Milagro for platform as my John.
You can add lots of tags in here like unreel 64 bit to any of the art styles you're going for to help
people find your game.
You can choose a custom noun.
That's a bit weird but the default is game so it will talk about your game as being a game or you could
call it amazing VR experience or something like that.
If that's what it is or amazing multiplayer experience it's really up to you what you choose the acustom
now.
I'm going to leave it as it is.
Next up you've got a community option.
So we're almost at the end of the options now and there's quite a few but we got there now.
You can allow comments you can disable comments you can have a discussion board at all sorts of stuff.
Here you can figure that out I'm sure.
And then we've got visibility and we'll talk a little bit about visibility in a moment so you've got
a draft where you can share a secret link restricted where only people with a password can access the
page and public.
Which ones.
I've got something to view and saved.
I can make it public.
So we've got the start of a game.
I'm going to go ahead and save that page to carry on with later.
And you see it takes me to this site to my page with a welcome message of welcome message.
And he goes you can see a very basic page at this stage but you can really spruce up there's an edit
theme button here that allows it to choose background colours allows you to choose background images
and banners and so on and so forth.
And if you want to see what's possible then just go and browse around it.
Is website just going to go in another tab and show you that something like the ones that are on the
top page.
Here you go and click on those.
Then they've got really cool banners and they really don't look like they're part of it IO at all.
They just look like cool landing pages for games.
So it can really help you get started on landing pages like that.
So I'm going to close that example down.
Now as I mentioned I was going to talk about security.
So here you've got a website that allows you to upload random executables and download other people's
random executables.
Now if that sounds dodgy to you then you've got a good sense of security because you shouldn't be downloading
it executing a random people's executables generally very bad idea.
So sure distribute the link around but encourage people to use the H dot IO app instead of the website.
The reason for that is that if you use the app it will run the executables inside what's called a sandbox
a sandbox basically protects your computer from the executable.
Make sure that it can't access anything outside the science sandbox so it can't delete your files access
your bank details or anything scary like that.
To download the dyre app then you just go to the website and there is a download link in the left hand
bar.
There's also often a banner at the top talking about the downloads you can download it and it looks
like this very very similar to the website itself.
You've got basically what is essentially a browser in here.
And you can see it's got back buttons a refresh button a you are albar.
And when you open up multiple games it opens them up as tabs here so that you can always navigate between
a few open games that you've got you can buy them you can download them in the app and fundamentally
you can play them.
So let me go ahead and show you from my library I've got an example of a game it's called tangent.
It was part of the ludum Dare game challenge and built in 48 hours.
It's quite fun.
What fun little games shows you what possible in a very short space of time.
I've already gone ahead and downloaded this and once you've downloaded the game you'll see that there
is a launch button.
If you click this launch button then it will go ahead and fire up that game inside the sandbox.
As I mentioned.
And you can see it is totally playable as I'm doing now.
But without any risk of a random executable to my computer which is always a good thing so I highly
highly recommend you use the H app for playing games that are downloadable.
Obviously if you're playing it on the website itself there is an issue there.
So next up let's go ahead and share the game that we've just built on it.
I know that's going to be your challenge.
To share your game.
First of all build it like we just did create an itch game.
Like I just did.
You'll probably need to create an account if you haven't done so already upload upload your game to
it.
I oh there was a field for it.
You're going to have to zip it up first.
You can't just upload a folder So you're going to have to create a zip of that which on whichever operating
system you're on that should be fairly easy to do.
And go ahead and share it with a friend and see can they download it in the IO app.
Are there any issues.
Can you figure them out.
So do it with a patient friend has what I'm talking about and do it maybe with another course student
using the forums to coordinate or using discord.
Pause video and have a go.
Okay welcome back.
So let's have a go at creating our own game now in games.
Just minimize the entire App for now and show you how to upload from within the web.
So we've got our puzzle platforms demo project that I've already created.
Let's go ahead and edit the game.
And on the edited editing page we've got an upload files button as I mentioned.
It won't just take folders.
So we need to go ahead and zip up the game and go over to my puzzle platforms directory.
I'm going to go in to the build folder.
And you'll notice in the build folder.
Unreal has created this folder called Windows.
No editor.
That is the build for Windows.
Obviously as the name suggests it runs without the editor it's a standalone game you can try it out
if you go and open it up and double click on the puzzle platform.
Scott XY.
Then it loads up very much as it would when we were launching it from the command line.
And obviously you've got access to the console like we did there so you can go ahead and host a game
if I get my completion right.
And you'll notice that especially on Windows you get a firewall alert saying do you want to allow access
to this executable.
Obviously you don't want to allow access.
If you want it to be able to play over the Internet which of course we do.
So here we are playing around inside the level and testing.
Okay so that's how the build works.
Let's go ahead and make it in to a zip file as I was suggesting go up the bill folder.
I'm going to right click on the windows no edit.
Then I'm going to go.
I've got a rather long right hand right click menu here.
The reason for that being I've got just a lot of Ed extensions and we want to go down that to the send
to compress the zip folder.
That's just the windows built in zipping tool and you see it create a zip called Windows.
No edit.
That's exactly what I want.
Now that's completed we can go ahead and copy that path using whichever way you want right click or
cattrell see or get a copy path button on the Windows Explorer you can put it there and then we are
going to hop over into it.
I Oh and upload files and I can paste in the path for that build that I wanted.
And you can see it'll start uploading.
Now you can do this via a Dropbox upload so you dont have to upload via the browser if thats convenient
for you can do it that way.
And also if youre very command line sapi DO check out their tool call them Butler which allows you to
upload your bills directly from the folders and there's some pretty clever stuff like if you have already
upload the bill before and this is just a new version.
It will only upload the changes so you won't have to upload massive games every single time.
Very good.
If you've got limited bandwidth on your Internet or you upload speeds particularly poor then Butler
will save you a lot of upload bandwidth.
Do go ahead and read their documentation.
It's here with get started and with the knowledge that you have about the command line that we've used.
You might be able to figure it out.
There's an extra little bonus challenge for you to try and figure out if you can use to upload to the
game project that you've created here in the browser.
Another thing you might do to consider sprucing up your game page and making it more likely that people
want to download your game is to include a little cover image and perhaps a game play video on YouTube.
This way people dont have to download the game to see what theyre getting into.
Really helpful.
And some screenshots and things like that will also really really help.
All that kind of visual marketing and selling is going to help you both get your friends to download.
I know that your friends and you think oh theyll download anything that you put on Facebook but it needs
to be pretty otherwise people really are lazy and don't bother to download your game and see how cool
it is.
You want to show them how cool it is right off the bat.
So when sharing is often best to share with a public visibility or access if you go to the bottom going
to save that as public you can configure the settings a little bit further.
For example you could disable downloads or line not sure why you'd want to do that.
Or you can market as unlisted so that when people search for it they're not going to find it up to you
whether you are a bit shy and don't want it to be listed.
You can put it like that so they'll only be able to find it if they know that you are real to your game.
Now the reason you might you want to do public rather than draft or restrict it is because draft and
restricted will not allow you to download in the entire App.
Only public will allow you to download.
Let's head back up and see whether the download is finished.
Upload I should say.
Yes it has.
Okay so now we can see what options we've got with that upload.
First of all we've got the drop down which says executable you can choose what kind of download it is
maybe it's not executable maybe it's source code or that book or a documentation a mod a graphical asset
blob of as an executable So that's what the default is fine.
Next you get to choose the platform the executable is for.
Mine is for Windows.
I'm going to check that one off.
You can also hide this file prevents from being downloaded.
You probably only do that if it was something that you were using as part of your description because
it really doesn't.
It's not very useful if you want to upload a game.
The other important thing you can do is change the display name windows no editor is obviously a very
terrible display names.
I'm going to call it Windows 64 bit.
That's a much better display name.
And there you go.
Windows 64 bit and it will download that when there's no edits sip.
Obviously you could have changed the name of the windows no editor zip in the first place.
So I'm going to make it public.
I'm going to make it unlisted at this point because I'm a bit shy and I'm going to go ahead and save
the game and go and view the page and see what it looks like.
So they go.
Now we've got a description and a download button that says Windows 64 bit.
And I go ahead and click it I'll of it they download it.
But I want to show you that we can also go ahead and find this in the editor so copy you orell.
Ed I mean the app.
Let's go over to itch and I just want to show you how we would get to that you are up so we could try
putting it in the search bar.
But I think we wouldn't get very far with that.
Indeed we don't.
It looks a bit weird I in fact have no idea what just happened there so we can go to the doctor I know.
Element in the sidebar and you'll notice that we can't change the U R L there so you might think oh
no we can't use you or else.
Actually we can.
And the way we do it is by going to another game and then suddenly your old becomes editable so we can
paste in the your elf our game and go to that page.
They go are not logged in.
So you can see that basically are not logged in account would see this.
And I've got a description I've got a place to leave a comment if I was logged in and you see I dont
have the download in the main section but I have it over in the right side bar.
So what I can do is I can go ahead and click install and it will set off the download for that game
and will be able to play it just as I showed you with the tangent game demo.
Try playing around with restricted and other types of visibility for your game.
You'll notice that they don't actually work when trying to download them unless it has updated its apps
since the recording of this video.
Okay so Im going to leave the video there and leave it up to you to see that.
Once you have downloaded this you can launch the game and play it and it will be playing with in sandbox
although you wont be able to tell that thats actually whats going on.
Congratulations on putting your game out there into the world.
Big pats on the back that takes a lot of courage and go ahead and share it in the community.
Big up your game and get some users to play it and play it together play it with you and give you some
feedback.
Thats why I really suggest having the comment thread there so that you can see the feedback rolling
in for your game.
Obviously share it with your own friends as well and give people instructions on how to host and join
games because thats not done vira you yet but that will be solved in the next section and I will see
you there.